NS-009: Permit Log Storage Systems to be operated in Third Party-Controlled Environments (#59)
cabforum/netsec: docs/NSR.md

**Air-Gapped**:  Physically and logically separated, disconnected, and isolated from all other Systems.

> **CA-Controlled Environment:** A Physically Secure Environment where physical and operational control is managed by the Certificate Authority (the organization) and not delegated to a third-party service provider.

Author: ```suggestion
**CA-Controlled Environment:** A Physically Secure Environment where physical and operational control is managed by the Certificate Authority (the organization) and not operated by a third-party service provider.
```

   1. the CA operates its own Systems within a facility managed by a third-party service provider;
   2. the CA maintains direct physical control over its designated space (e.g., dedicated rack, cage, or suite) and the Systems within that space; and
   3. the third-party service provider manages facility-level controls such as building perimeter security, physical access systems, power, environmental controls (e.g., HVAC), and fire suppression.

**CA-Controlled Environment:**: A Physically Secure Environment where all physical and operational controls are exclusively managed by the Certificate Authority (the organization), including facility-level controls such as building perimeter security, physical access systems, power, environmental controls (e.g., HVAC), and fire suppression. No portion of the Physically Secure Environment's physical or environmental controls is operated by a third-party service provider.

**CA Infrastructure**: Collectively the infrastructure used by the CA or Delegated Third Party which qualifies as a:

* Certificate System;
* Root CA System (Air-Gapped and otherwise);
* Security Support System; or

> * Logging System.

Reviewer: I'm concerned that some interpretation may take the Logging System that is in a Third-Party Environment as a system in scope that needs to meet all the NSR requirements 1-4. This would be difficult as you'll need to validate/audit the Third Party Controlled Environment itself. 

Some alternative options:

1) Could we break out the logging system from CA Infrastructure and define the requirements for logging system comprehensively separately in section 5/section 6 respectively?
2) Update each requirement section where "CA Infrastructure" is referenced to "CA Infrastructure in a CA Controlled Environment"

**Key Pair**: The Private Key and its associated Public Key.

> **Log Storage System**: The System(s) used for the long-term, authoritative retention of audit logs. This definition includes any backup or recovery system whose data is intended to be used to restore or replace the authoritative copy. Copies of logs used for transient purposes (such as debugging or temporary analysis) are not considered Log Archive Systems, provided they cannot be used to restore the authoritative copy.

Author: ```suggestion
**Log Storage System**: The System(s) used for the long-term, authoritative retention of audit logs. This definition includes any backup or recovery system whose data is intended to be used to restore or replace the authoritative copy. Copies of logs used for transient purposes (such as debugging or temporary analysis) are not considered Log Storage Systems, provided they cannot be used to restore the authoritative copy.
```

**System**: One or more pieces of equipment or software that stores, transforms, or communicates data.

> **Third Party-Controlled Environment:** A Physically Secure Environment where physical and operational control is not managed by the Certificate Authority (the organization) and is instead delegated to a third-party service provider.

Author: ```suggestion
**Third Party-Controlled Environment:** A Physically Secure Environment where physical and operational control is not managed by the Certificate Authority (the organization) and is instead operated by a third-party service provider.
```

##### 1.2.1

Certificate Systems, Root CA Systems (Air-gapped or otherwise), and Security Support Systems MUST be in:

   1. a CA-Controlled Environment; or
   2. a CA-Colocated Environment that fulfills the requirements of [Section 5](#5-requirements-for-ca-colocated-environments).

Logging Systems MUST be in:

>    1. a CA-Controlled Environment;

Reviewer: If it is in a CA-controlled environment, what requirements must the logging system follow?

The CA MUST ensure vulnerabilities are reviewed, responded to, and remediated in accordance with their established timeframe(s).

The CA MUST document in Section 6.7 of their Certificate Policy and/or Certification Practices Statement each timeframe established for responding to and remediating vulnerabilities.

> # 5. Requirements for Third Party-Controlled Environments

Author: Feedback from Trev:

Remove most of the content from this Section 5 and replace with:
```
The CA MUST perform a risk assessment of the service provider they are making use of. The risk assessment MUST cover topics applicable to the services being used and MUST cover the CA’s considerations and criteria. The CA SHOULD use a report that is independently audited and certified. The risk assessment SHOULD cover: 
1.       Vulnerability Detection
2.       Patch Management
3.       System Hardening
4.       Network Hardening
```

Author: add Physical Security

Author: BRs 5.1 Physical Security Controls 
5.1.1 Site location and construction 
5.1.2 Physical access 
5.1.3 Power and air conditioning 
5.1.4 Water exposures 
5.1.5 Fire prevention and protection 
5.1.6 Media storage 
5.1.7 Waste disposal 
5.1.8 Off-site backup

The requirements of this section MUST be fulfilled for all Systems which are operated in a Third Party-Controlled Environment.

> In addition to the requirements outlined in this section, the CA SHOULD configure Systems in accordance with the documentation and guidance that is published by the operator of the Third Party-Controlled Environment.

Author: Language suggestion from Trev:

```
In addition to the requirements outlined in this section, the CA MUST configure systems in accordance with the documentation and guidance that is published by the operator of the Third Party-Controlled Environment. Ensuring that they meet the expectations published in the operator’s Shared Responsibility Model or other applicable documents and inline with the CA’s risk assessment.
```

The CA MUST ensure vulnerabilities are reviewed, responded to, and remediated in accordance with their established timeframe(s).

The CA MUST document in Section 6.7 of their Certificate Policy and/or Certification Practices Statement each timeframe established for responding to and remediating vulnerabilities.

# 5. Requirements for Third Party-Controlled Environments

The requirements of this section MUST be fulfilled for all Systems which are operated in a Third Party-Controlled Environment.

## 5.1 Risk Assessment

> The CA MUST perform a risk assessment of the service provider of the Third Party-Controlled Environment. The risk assessment MUST cover topics applicable to the services being used and MUST cover the CA’s considerations and criteria. The CA SHOULD use a report that is independently audited and certified. The risk assessment SHOULD cover: 

Reviewer 2: Replace:  "The CA SHOULD use a report that is independently audited and certified."  With "The CA MUST document the evidence relied upon in performing the risk assessment, which MAY include independently audited or certified reports."

1. Vulnerability Detection
2. Patch Management
3. System Hardening
4. Network Hardening
5. Physical Security

## 5.2 Shared Responsibility

> The CA MUST configure Systems in accordance with the documentation and guidance that is published by the operator of the Third Party-Controlled Environment. The CA MUST ensure that the configuration of such Systems meet the expectations published in the operator’s Shared Responsibility Model or other applicable documents. In addition, the CA MUST confirm that the configuration of such Systems aligns with the CA’s risk assessment.

Reviewer 2: Replace this paragraph with:
"The CA MUST configure Systems in accordance with the documentation, guidance, and shared-responsibility model published by the operator of the Third Party-Controlled Environment. The CA MUST document how its configuration satisfies the responsibilities allocated to the CA and aligns with the CA’s risk assessment."

## 5.3 Data Integrity and Retention

> Systems which are operated in a Third Party-Controlled Environment MUST be configured to prevent the modification or deletion of logs for their entire required retention period. This MUST be implemented using provider-native immutability features, such as WORM (Write-Once-Read-Many) or Object Locks.

Reviewer 2: Add "The CA MUST verify, at least annually, that the immutability and retention configuration remains effective and that audit logs can be retrieved for the required retention period."

4. the third-party service provider's access to the CA's designated space, if any, is:
   a. governed by documented procedures that are consistent with the CA's physical access policies;
   b. escorted by, or conducted with the prior authorization and knowledge of, personnel assigned to applicable Trusted Roles; and
   c. logged and reviewed by the CA.

Where Root CA Systems are housed in a CA-Colocated Environment, the CA MUST additionally ensure that the third-party service provider cannot independently access the CA's designated space without the presence of personnel assigned to applicable Trusted Roles.

## 5.4 Monitoring and Verification

The CA MUST:

1. verify, at least annually, that the third-party service provider's facility-level controls continue to satisfy the CA's risk assessment; and
2. review physical access logs for the CA's designated space at least quarterly.

# 6. Requirements for Third Party-Controlled Environments

The requirements of this section MUST be fulfilled for all Systems which are operated in a Third Party-Controlled Environment.

## 6.1 Risk Assessment

> The CA MUST perform a risk assessment of the service provider of the Third Party-Controlled Environment. The risk assessment MUST cover topics applicable to the services being used and MUST cover the CA’s considerations and criteria. The CA MUST document the evidence relied upon in performing the risk assessment, which MAY include independently audited or certified reports. The risk assessment SHOULD cover: 

Reviewer: Are there a common criterion/standard for when a risk is acceptable or not acceptable. If it becomes unacceptable, is there a timeline to remediate?
